# Event Sync

In previous projects where I've implemented SignalR-based event synchronization, the implementations ended up feeling cumbersome or were not the most performant. Causes for this were:

* Targeting an event hub for every entity type in an API service, which lead to entirely too many open channels in any given context.

* Due to the event hubs being tied to entities, the level of generic constraints on both the sync infrastructure and the API services themselves made it very cumbersome.

* Event messages caused heavy traffic loads because each message contained the full object that was affected.

* Because of the amount of event hubs being defined, an equivalent number of event listener clients needed to be initialized and managed in applications and cross-service integrations.

* Each service had to define a significant amount of public API infrastructure to facilitate cross-service event sync.

This project seeks to optimize and simplify distributed event syncing with SignalR. It will do so by implementing the following adjustments:

* Each API service will have only one [`EventHub`](./libraries/EventSync/Server/EventHub.cs) endpoint that handles all events for the service.

* [`EventMessage`](./libraries/EventSync/EventMessage.cs) records will only capture the ID of the affected object, it's type, and an optional message communicating how the object was affected.

* All incoming events will be handled by a single [`EventListener`](./libraries/EventSync/Client/EventListener.cs).

    * The only service-specific infrastructure that needs to be defined is an implementation of [`IEventHandler`](./libraries/EventSync/Client/IEventHandler.cs). This service will be used to handle all of the incoming events generated by a single [`EventListener`](./libraries/EventSync/Client/EventListener.cs).

    * The `EventListener` must be registered with `builder.Services.AddSingleton<EventListener<EH>>` where `EH` is the `IEventHandler` implementation for the service.

* The connection to the remote `EventHub` will be managed through an [`EventListenerConnector`](./libraries/EventSync/Client/EventListenerConnector.cs).

* Because `EventMessage` and `EventListener` simplified and standardized at the library level, API services do not need to export their own event infrastructure anymore. You just need to ensure the integrating service has CORS access to the target service and knows the event hub endpoint.

* For web applications, only a single listener will be registered at the root of the application. The incoming events and messages will be distributed throughout the application using an RxJS observable. This observable can be filtered within any of its various subscription contexts so that the app optimizes how it handles event message flow.